Andre Theuma:
Andre Theuma
by Kevin Vella - Wednesday, 26 January 2022, 4:58 PM
Number of replies: 1
The progress report states the aims of the project, provides a background review that is limited to the CPython byte code and Souffle -- the pre-existing tool that will do the heavy lifting for the analysis -- and then addresses the work to be completed and its evaluation in non-specific ways that could be of concern:

The work plan section starts with 'The Methodology planned to carry out this project starts off by creating the CPython bytecode analyser', briefly highlights the extraction of facts from bytecode (actual progress on its implementation is unclear), and concludes with 'The type of analysis that will be done is still yet to be discussed.'
The evaluation section also contains few specifics: 'The two main evaluation techniques are the following; Evaluate bytecode, analyse each bytecode instruction & produce facts. Perform meaningful queries on facts generated by the bytecode analyser. From these evaluation techniques, a report might be produced illustrating the queries & their results.'
Moreover, no schedule of tasks (completed/outstanding), Gantt chart, or equivalent information is put forward in the report, which impacts the risk factor for the project's timely completion. In my view, once the January exam session is over the student should:

determine what types of analysis will be performed and evaluated,
produce a concrete evaluation plan that includes specific evaluation criteria, and
work out a high level schedule of tasks for completing the project.
while ramping up implementation.

Picture of Trevor Spiteri
In reply to Kevin Vella
Re: Andre Theuma
by Trevor Spiteri - Thursday, 27 January 2022, 2:51 PM
As already stated above, the report has no detail, and no plan.

The background research and literature review section is also very lacking. The only thing it does is expose bytecode disassembly and Souffle, which are just tools that are going to be used (basically the complete plan visible from the report can be summed up as just: disassemble the bytecode and use Souffle). But there is no literature review of related works for example.

The report gives the impression that no significant work has been done yet and that the progress report itself was put together in a hurry. After the exam session the student has to put in the effort to review some literature, make a proper plan, and start working on the implementation.